Explanation of Choices

Task 1: 
I chose to split the data first by Buffer Configuration, and then to plot a graph for each, thus generating 3 graphs total. 

The data was split into lanes by Method, and then plotted.

Since the data was contrasting Average Quality with the Changes in Quality, I felt this would be appropriate to place them on the same scale for more direct contrast. 

To visually separate the two types of data, I gave them contrasting colors.

While it was an option also to display the average of the Quality against the average of the Change in Quality, I felt this caused information to be lost. For example, the average of the Quality in many Methods was a bimodal distribution, but while this was easily observed in the scattered form, it would be lost upon averaging. 

Task 2: 
I chose to display all the Buffer Configurations in the same graph, since there were only 3 Scales. 

For consistency's sake, I split the data into lanes by Method again, and plotted the average Quality of Experience against Buffer Configurations. 

Since Quality of Experience was Ordinal data, while Buffer Configurations was Categorical data, I used colors to represent Buffer Configurations, and plotted the Quality of Experience along the Y-Axis

Task 3:
I chose to split the data first by Method, and then to plot a graph for each, thus generating 3 graphs total. 

Similar to task 2, I chose to display all the Buffer Configurations in the same graph, since there were only 3 Scales after splitting by Method.

Since Quality and Inefficiency were Ordinal data, and Buffer Configurations was Categorical data, I used colors and shapes to represent Buffer Configurations, and plotted the Quality against Inefficiency on the X and Y-Axis. 

Task 4: 
I chose to split the data into lanes by Method, and then to plot a graph for the Number of Stalls for each Profile

Since the Number of Stalls was Ordinal data, and Profile was Categorical data, I used colors to represent Profiles and plotted the Number of Stalls on the Y-Axis. 

However, I then found that the data was overlapping, and there were multiple instances of data points with the same Profile with the same number of Stalls. As such, I separated each Profile into a sub-lane of it's own, and additionally added transparency to the data points to signify the frequency of that event. 


Insights: 
The separation of data into Scales and types of data really helped the decision process in choosing an appropriate visualization element for the data I was trying to display. Additionally, I've learned a lot about how Javascript and D3.js work, and some tricks that make it work (or not work). 

It was especially interesting to do Task 1 and Task 4. In Task 1, I noticed that the distribution of the data had patterns that would be better preserved, and which would be lost when averaged. In Task 4, where the data overlapped, since I had to consider how I was displaying the data not only on a plot, but on the Z-Axis. 

Instructions: 
Open index.html in a browser. 